This is the backstory and a bit of context:


I am a developer of the ariel codebase that was initially created for evolving modular robots with cubes attached to each other by hinges that can be actuated by the robot's controller, i.e. brain this results in a coupling of morphology and controller with both having separate genotypes and their combination being the actual moving robot that can be fitness evaluated the phenotype. This by itself is not all that new, it is a basic evolutionary robotics system that allows for multiple genotypes to be used, however what our improvement really is is that we coin the term “Blueprint” which is described in the attached paper in detail.

New project: 

Now I’m working on a “drone morphology evolution with controllers generated by reinforcement learning”   EU project that is a collaboration between multiple universities. Many research teams use different genotypes to encode their drones and they also don’t always use the same simulation software either, leading to less opportunities for collaboration and idea flow. To address this I want to propose ARIEL to be a common base for this research project. 

Current standing:

I have integrated Jed Muff’s drone evolution code into ARIEL, however as of now it does not really follow the essential blueprint concept that is the real benefit of ARIEL. The reason is twofold, firstly I haven’t had that much time and secondly I want to create a blueprint that encodes the drones in their morphological space close enough to the simulation software that it’s universal enough to easily translate into a phenotype “out-of-the-box”. The research community would eventually like to converge on using Isaac Lab as the main simulation software for the drones.

Email thread context:

We have a new idea for a VUA contribution for the integration event. Aron who joined the SPEAR project recently @VUA, has been working on integrating Jed's drone evolution platform airevolve to VUA's advanced robot evolution and robot learning  platform ARIEL (https://github.com/ci-group/ariel/blob/main/README.md). He is just finishing his debugging. 


Aron is up to date with Jed's code and has been working toward porting his code to work on the MuJoCo-based simulator. ARIEL is designed to facilitate switching simulators (albeit not completely hot-swappable). It may be interesting in the meeting to have an option to try out Ariel as a potential alternative to Isaac Lab-based Aerial Gym or sharing information about Aron's work. With his availability in the meeting, we can get guidance from him directly.  ARIEL has never been connected to Isaac Lab. So, this is something to be tried out in the integration meeting or later on. Let me know what you think.
—---------------------------------
Thank you. It will be interesting to learn about Arial and see if it could be used in the integration event.


We could have a meeting this Friday or next Monday to learn more. I am open in the second half in these days. Please let me know your availability. 
—---------------------------------
There is a SPEAR Dissemination meeting arranged by KEMEA from 10:30-11:30 tomorrow. Some of us may be attending it. 


How about 9:30-10:30 tomorrow, if everyone agrees with it? I will share a calendar invite, just to make an entry. Please feel free to move it, if needed. 

→ Today is Thursday so the first pre-meeting is tomorrow.

Request:

Parse through all the folders that have to do with modular robot evolution and drone evolution and create a plan to maximize the utility the ARIEL platform can provide for this project.